# ARCS: $Header: /home/cvs/cvs/RDA_4/src/scripting/lib/modules/irda.pod,v 1.11 2012/01/02 17:28:00 mschenke Exp $

=head1 NAME

irda - Remote Diagnostic Agent Interface for Incident Packaging System

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 irda.pl [-dotv] request

 irda.pl -C [-fv]

 irda.pl -I [-fv] [-c proto] dir ...

See the following sections for additional information about the switches.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Incident Package System (IPS) can trigger a Remote Diagnostic Agent (RDA)
collection when finalizing an incident package. IPS expects to find the RDA
start scripts in the F<rda> sub directory of the Oracle home. However, you can
put the RDA software somewhere else, for example, on a shared drive. In that
case, the subdirectory contains the start scripts and its configuration file
only.

RDA derives the collection requirements from request file parameters by using
rules. It suppresses all interactive dialogs in setup and all user acknowledge
requests in the data collection or tests.

For more information about RDA, or to download the latest version, see
Knowledge Articles 314422.1 and 330363.1.

=head2 INTERFACE SCRIPT

 irda.pl [-dotv] request

Executes an IPS request. IPS provides the full path of the request file as an
argument.

=head1 RULE CHECK

 irda.pl -C [-fv]

Checks the consistency of the rule files. You can use the B<-f> option to
extend the validation rules.

=head1 BOOTSTRAP INSTALLATION

 irda.pl -I [-fv] [-c proto] dir ...

Installs the RDA bootstrap in the specified Oracle home directories. It copies
the interface script and creates a configuration file F<irdacfg.ini> in an
F<rda> subdirectory. It aborts the installation when the sub directory exists
already. You can force the installation with the B<-f> option.

You can use the B<-c> option to indicate a prototype for generating the
configuration file. RDA keeps the extension of the prototype for the
configuration file. F<irdacfg.ini> can coexist with operating system-specific
variants: C<irdacfg.cyg>, C<irdacfg.vms>, and C<irdacfg.win>. RDA gives
preference to the variants corresponding to the current platform.

=head1 COMMON OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<-d>

Sets the debug mode.

=item B<-f>

Sets full/force mode for the B<-C> and B<-I> options.

=item B<-o>

Disables standard output and error redirections.

=item B<-t>

Enables tracing of the setup and data collection commands globally.

=item B<-v>

Sets the verbose mode.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILES

The configuration files control the relocation mechanism but you can also use
them for controlling the RDA operations.

The configuration files can contain following parameters:

=over 15

=item B<PERL5DIR>

Full path to the directory containing the Perl executables.

=item B<PERL5LIB>

Associated PERL5LIB value.

=item B<RDA_DEBUG>

Sets the debug mode.

=item B<RDA_FILTER>

Full path to an alternative filter definition.

=item B<RDA_HOME>

Full path to the RDA software directory.

=item B<RDA_PREPARE>

Indicates which trace level RDA must activate for the prepare and setup
phases. You can specify 0 or 1 as the trace level.

=item B<RDA_SCRIPT>

Name of the command to execute, F<irda.pl> by default.

=item B<RDA_TRACE>

Sets the trace mode.

=item B<RDA_VERBOSE>

Sets the verbose mode.

=item B<SETTING_E<lt>nameE<gt>>

Specifies a temporary setting. For example, C<SETTING_hours_before_incident=0.5>

=item B<TRACE_E<lt>moduleE<gt>>

Indicates which trace level RDA must activate for the corresponding module. You
can specify 0, 1, or 2 as the trace level.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT NOTICE

Copyright (c) 2002, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

=head1 TRADEMARK NOTICE

Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.

=cut
